# 18_Web UI Testing with Serenity

- Arsitektur serenity BDD dapat dimulai dari pages menuju ke steps lalu lanjut ke tests dan berakhir pada reports, bisa juga dapat dimulai dari requirements menuju ke tests dan berakhir di reports. Serenity ialah framework BDD open source yang membantu dalam pembuatan atau penulisan dengan baik dan terstruktur secara otomatis dan dapat dipertahankan. Arsitektur serenity terdiri dari requirements, tests, steps, pages, dan reports. Define requirements, when using serenity you start with the requirements you need to implement. These are often expressed as user "stories" with acceptance criteria that help clarify requirements. It is these "stories" that serenity automates. Automate acceptance criteria, describe the acceptance criteria in high-level business terms. Record these acceptance criteria using either a BDD tool such as cucumber with the form "feature" so that Serenity can run them. Implement the test, implement the acceptance criteria into a code, so that they can run against the actual application. Under the hood, tests are broken down into nested steps for better readability and easier maintenance. Report on test result, serenity provides detailed reports on the test results and execution. Including a narrative for each test, screenshots for each step in the test, test results including execution times and error messages if the test failed.

- The step overview BDD with cucumber, write story (gherkin syntax = given, when, than), configure stories (configure stories and steps), browser interaction (map steps to browser manipulation), run stories (intellij IDEA and maven), view reports (make a report using serenity). Writing the test, serenity cucumber = using serenity cucumber, create file stories = define test scenario, create file test class = automate stories, create test steps = define scenario steps, create file page objects = interact with browser.Practice scenario login success in facebook, pertama write test story, kedua create test class, ketiga create test steps, keempat create page object, dan kelima run the test.

- Serenity properties, serenity support many properties to customize the way the test is run. Webdriver.driver defines which browser will be used to test. Ignore.failures in.stories set the serenity to continue testing the next scenario even if the current scenario is failed. Parameter injection, text in story can be used as variable. Using bracket { } in annotation string in test class. Example “billy@alterra.com” is used as a variable named email_user. Meta filtering, in order to help manage story scenarios, we can use "tag" to the corresponding feature or scenario. To run a test with a specific tag, use commands like this. Parameterised scenario, in story scenario can be parameterised with configured value. Parameterised scenario is same with same multiple scenario but different value.

