# 23_Testing in CI/CD Pipeline (eksplorasi)

- Continuous Integration, continuous integration is the practice of integrating code into a shared repository and building/testing each change automatically, as early as possible - usually several times a day. Best achieved through integration with version control. Continuous Delivery/Deployment, continuous delivery adds that the software can be released to production at any time, often by automatically pushing changes to a staging system. Continuous Deployment goes further and pushes changes to production automatically. Continuous Delivery vs Continuous Deployment, continuous delivery automatically prepares and tracks a release to production. Continuous deployment every change in the source code is deployed to production automatically, without explicit approval from a developer. Continuous delivery the desired outcome is that anyone with the sufficient privileges to deploy a new release can do so at any time in one or a few clicks. By eliminating nearly all manual tasks, developers become more productive. Continuous deployment as long as it passess the quality controls. Continuous delivery deploy to production with manual, but Continuous Deployment deploy to production with automatic. What makes for a good CI, CI decoupled stages, repeatable, and fail fast. What makes for a good CD, design with system in mind, pipelines, and globally unique versions. CI/CD process, first step is commit, second steps is build, third steps is test, and fourth steps is deploy. Benefits of implementing CI, first is detecting bugs in the early stage, second is reducing bug count, third is the development process is more transparent, and fourth is efficient. Benefits of implementing CD, first is reducing the risk, second is painless deployment, third is reduces cost, fourth is automated and transparent process, and fifth is releases more frequently. Continuous integration cost, first is to write automated tests, second is server for automated tests, and third is to merge the cost as often as possible. Continuous delivery/continuous deployment cost, first is strong foundations in CI, second is need highest quality of test, and third is documentation needs to be updated frequently.

- CI/CD tools, Jenkins, Bamboo, circleci, AWS CodeBuild, Azure DevOps, CICD, Travis CI, GitHub Actions. Jenkins is an open-source automation tool written in Java with plugins built for continuous integration (open source tools, easy to install, over 1000++ plugins, built with Java, automatically monitor code quality and metrics, and free of cost). GitLab CI (Continuous Integration) service is a part of GitLab which manages the project and user interface and allows unit tests on every commit and indicates with warning message when there is an unsuccessful build (integrated in gitlab interface, simple usage, integrated with other tools, executed on multiple platforms, and open source). Atlassian Bamboo is a continuous integration build server that performs automatic build, test, and releases in a single place (100 remote build agents, create image and save to registry, ensures easy and fast functionality, and parallel test), Circle CI is a flexible CI tool that runs in any environment like cross-platform mobile app, Python API server or Docker cluster. This tool reduces bugs and improves the quality of the application (allows to select build env, automatically cancel any queued, integrate with vcs tools, optimal caching and parallelism, split and balance test, and support many languages). AWS Codebuild is a CI/CD tool that allows developers to build and test code at a continuous scale (continuous scale, extensible, integrate and delivery with another tools, and secure). Azure Devops is a CI/CD tool which can be relied on for planning, testing, deploying or distributing, and this tool is created by Microsoft (free, full features, fast and easy process, and support .net). Travis CI was the first CI as a Service tool. It introduced a new approach to building code in the cloud. This CI tool allows the user to sign up, link their repository, build, as well as test their apps (easy deployment, integrate with another tools, parallel test, and support multiple languages). GitHub Actions is a continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) platform that allows you to automate your build, test, and deployment pipeline (hosted vm with multiple os, ci templates, simple container and os testing, and free).

- Components of GitHub Actions, workflows, jobs, actions, events, and runners. A workflow is a configurable automated process that will run one or more jobs. Workflows are defined by a YAML file checked in to your repository and will run when triggered by an event in your repository, or they can be triggered manually, or at a defined schedule. An event is a specific activity in a repository that triggers a workflow run. For example, activity can originate from GitHub when someone creates a pull request, opens an issue, or pushes a commit to a repository. A runner is a server that runs your workflows when they're triggered. Each runner can run a single job at a time. GitHub provides Ubuntu Linux. Microsoft Windows, and macOS runners to run your workflows. A job is a set of steps in a workflow that execute on the same runner. Each step is either a shell script that will be executed, or an action that will be run. Steps are executed in order and are dependent on each other. Since each step is executed on the same runner, you can share data from one step to another. An action is a custom application for the GitHub Actions platform that performs a complex but frequently repeated task. Use an action to help reduce the amount of repetitive code that you write in your workflow files.